There are several basic steps you need to master before you can command downhill skiing
bumps
steep passages
and powder skiing
The most important movements
are side
to side
and up and down
Basic movements for alpine skiing
To make a turn, you have to move from side to side
The movements make the skis edge in such a way that they carve a turn
Tip your feet and knees in the direction you wish to turn
With your skis edged, you will be able to stand firm throughout the turn
and then lean your body in the same direction as your feet and knees
The up-and-down movements help obtain a round turn
Use your ankle and knees to start the up-and-down movements
You begin your turn by moving upwards whereby you release the pressure from your skis
When your skis are directed towards the valley, you should begin the down movements
This supplies pressure onto your skis and helps you to complete the turn
The more you apply pressure onto your skies while you are turning, the more they will turn
Skiing with rhythm and flow saves energy
Don't force your skis excessively like this skier
you will only use a lot of energy and then skiing becomes a hassle
Be patient before you initiate your next turn
Only when the skis start to turn
should you apply pressure from your body's weight so that your turn can be rounded and competed
Try linking your turns
as soon as you complete one turn, begin the next
If you let your skis follow their natural curves
you will achieve more elegant and effortless skiing
You have to adjust yourself to changing terrain and speed by altering your movements
When you find yourself going at a high speed
you should keep a good distance between your skis and lower your body
When you find yourself in irregular terrain
keep close contact with the snow by letting your legs giving in to the bumps
And in powder, you should let your movements more or lesst flow
By keeping your skis together, you won't sink into the deep snow